---
layout: post
title: The Perfect Domain for Emacs Projects
tags:
- Meta
---

Recently I've been working on documentation sites for a couple of my
more prominent Emacs packages -
[CIDER](https://github.com/clojure-emacs/cider) and
[Projectile](https://github.com/bbatsov/projectile).  When I got to
the point where I needed to register some domains for the sites I
realized that picking the right domain is just as hard as naming
things.[^1]

Most open-source projects typically have `.org` domains and you'd see
here and there the use of `.net` or (more recently) `.io`. Those are
all great domain options, but they have one slight problem - because
they're super popular there aren't that many free names to choose from
if you decide to use them. That would have forced me to go with
domains like `emacscider.org` or `emacsprojectile.org`, which are OK,
but nothing more. I don't know about you, but I really hate prefixing
domain names!

After struggling with this for a while an unexpected solution
presented itself to me.  I was on a short business trip to Mexico and
I noticed that the country's top-level domain is `.mx`. `.mx` just
like in `M-x`, Emacs's most iconic keybinding![^2] Needless to say I
immediately registered [cider.mx](https://docs.cider.mx) and
[projectile.mx](https://docs.projectile.mx). Such a perfect fit!

I think that every Emacs projects deserves a Meta-X domain, so get
one for your project right away, while there are still plenty of free
names to choose from!

[^1]: OK, nothing is quite as hard as naming, but that's pretty close.
[^2]: One can also argue that `M-x` sounds a lot like Emacs. I'm reasonably sure the choice of `M-x` was not accidental.
